---
layout: post
title:  "Brief into to LaTeX"
date:   2014-09-21 22:35:04
categories: liuqianchao update
---


In this short article, I will give a brief introduction to the grammar of LaTeX.   

### 1.  Structure of .tex file   

#### 1.1  Basic elements   

--- 
```\documentclass[opt,opt]{class}.``` uesd at the very beginning of a document. where `opt` can be:   

- Font Size:10pt/11pt/12pt etc.   
- Papar Size:leterpaper/a4paper etc.   
- Use two columns:twocolumn.   
- Set margins for two-sided:twoside.  
 
and `class` can be:   

- book/report/article/letter/slides   

```\input{inputfile.tex}``` used to include the file specifying ducument layout, which is optional.   

```\author{text}```, ```\title{text}```, ```\date{text}``` are used to declare proprieties of this file. 

```\begin{document}``` and ```\end{document}``` used to start contents and end the document  

```\section{text}``` used to begin a new section. And ```\subsection{text}``` to create sub-section.

- some other strucures:`\part{text}`,`\chapter{text}`   
- in `\section*{title}`, to not number a particular item—these items will also not appear in the table of contents.

#### 1.2  key elements

---
 

```\begin{tabbing}``` and  ```\end{tabbing}``` used to start tabbing and end the tabbing   

- ```\hspace{l}```  Horizontal space of length l (Ex:l=20pt or l=3cm). And ```\vspace{l}``` where v means vertical.

- use `\=` to **set** tab stop, and `\kill` at the end of the line.
	- Ex: `\hspace{3cm} \= \hspace{4cm} \= \kill`
- `\>` used to **go** to tab stop (*set* once, and *go* many times), and `\\` is used to separate lines(end this line, and may create a new line).

```\begin{tabular}[position]{cols}``` and ```\end{tabular}```   

- the `cols` is decided by your need, it can be `l c r` or `l c c c c r `and `l | c | r` means that inserts a vertical line between columns.
- `\hline` Horizontal line between rows. `\cline{x-y}` means horizontal line across columns x through y. And x and y are numbers.

### 2.  Text and symbols  

#### 2.1  Text   

---
```{\bf text}``` or `\textbf{text}`bolden the font. `{\it text}` to *Italic*.

`\href{mailto:website}{text}`,use href in you text:

- Ex: `\href{mailto:https://www.google.com}{google.com}`   

```\hfill``` Horizontal space betwwen the *two* blocks   

```parabox[position]{length}{text}``` to put something into the one kind of box.

#### 2.2  Symbols   

---
For inline math, use`\(..\)` or `$ $`.    
With the limits of the display in website, more details find at  [offical document of LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/)

### 3.  Some other important things you should also know:   
- The test environment in this passage is [MacTex](http://tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html).   
- To use LateX in [Sublime Text](www.sublimetext.com/), you can find steps of configuration at [here](http://economistry.com/2013/01/installing-and-using-latex-for-mac/).   
- To use Chinese characters in your LaTeX, you can use **xelatex** Engine. Adding ```%!TEX program = xelatex``` at the beginning of your LaTeX code.   
- To install more available package:`tlmgr install <package>` in your terminal
